__Title__: Effective use of Shiny modules in application development

__Abstract__ (full version): As a Shiny application grows in scale, organizing code into reusable and streamlined components becomes vital to manage future enhancements and avoid unnecessary duplication. Shiny modules are customized R functions that are easily reused multiple times within an application by avoiding namespace collisions and assist with organizing the code base. Like R functions, modules can be simple utilities or elaborate pieces with multiple inputs and outputs. While the process of creating a module is uncomplicated, application developers can quickly encounter challenges including communication among modules, defining logical compositions, and avoiding hidden state modifications. In this talk, we will introduce practical principles and techniques developers can leverage to address these issues head-on such as documenting modules, passing parameters and return values effectively between modules, and how nesting modules enables dynamic user interfaces with minimal overhead.

__Abstract__ (750 character version): As a Shiny application grows, organizing code into reusable components becomes vital to manage future enhancements and avoid unnecessary duplication. Shiny modules are customized R functions that are easily reused multiple times by avoiding namespace collisions and assist with organizing the code base. While creating modules is uncomplicated, developers can quickly encounter challenges including communication among modules, defining logical compositions, and avoiding hidden state modifications. In this talk, we will introduce practical techniques developers can leverage to address these issues such as documenting modules, passing parameters effectively between modules, and how nesting modules enables dynamic interfaces with little overhead.